## Theoretical Discussion

StorymapJS is a unique digital media display as it incorporates real life information with illustrative details. It can convey both reality and fiction with an understandable use of the distance between points. It is very similar to a GIS display seen in GPS products. GIS is a geographical information display that allows users to convey the location and information of a place. Johanna Drucker mentioned GIS in her article, “Humanities Approaches to Graphical Displays”, she stated that the system can display more than just geographic information.

“As digital visualization tools have become more ubiquitous, humanists have adopted many applications such as GIS mapping, graphs, and charts for statistical display that were developed in other disciplines. But, I will argue, such graphical tools are a kind of intellectual Trojan horse, a vehicle through which assumptions about what constitutes information swarm with potent force.” This is true with StorymapJS as it can tell a story in time and space using geological locations. It demonstrates answers to the question of “what is” that Drucker discusses in the article. These GIS displays can be more than just statistical objects used for research. Hobbyist, artists, writers, teachers, and students can use them to plan a project for presentation. StorymapJS represents the plot of an event and answers the questions of what, where, who, why and how.

StorymapJS can expand the topics of time and space we experience in digital scholarship. It can display the progress made in the existence of time and space through the plot. Instead of writing long paragraphs explaining the locations of a character, event, or story, it can easily be shown with a map. The map conveys the same information but in a more effective manner. For example, a project was created in StorymapJS to show the journey of the character Arya in the show, ‘Game of Thrones’. Without the story map, the viewer would have to watch many seasons of the show or read the novels to see where she has traveled. 

Story maps are a great way to display a lot of information in an organized and creative manner. It encompasses text and images to show the progress of a story or real-life event. Its use of these media helps it stand out. The interactive components help the user understand the significance of an interface and the impact an interface has on information reception. An informational display doesn’t have to be bland, it can be abstract and still make sense to the viewer. StorymapJS has a unique display, but it is still able to give information the same or better than a plain display like a book. 
